update readme with more details and all methods (#136)
tc39/proposal-iterator-helpers: README.md

# Iterator Helpers

> A proposal for several interfaces that will help with general usage and

Reviewer: very nitty: newlines after headings

consumption of iterators in ECMAScript.

## Status
Authors: Gus Caplan, Michael Ficcara, Adam Vandolder, Jason Orendorff

Champions: Michael Ficcara, Yulia Startsev

This proposal is at Stage 2 of [The TC39 Process](https://tc39.es/process-document/).

## Motivation

> Iterators are a useful way to represent large or possible infinite enumerable data sets. However,

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Iterators are a useful way to represent large or possibly infinite enumerable data sets. However,
```

they lack helpers which make them as easy to use as Arrays and other finite data structures, which
results in certain problems that could be better represented by iterators being expressed in Arrays,
or using libraries to introduce the necessary helpers. Many [libraries and languages](#prior-art) already provide these interfaces.

## Proposal

> The proposal introduces a collection of new methods on the Iterator prototype, to allow general

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The proposal introduces a collection of new methods on the Iterator and AsyncIterator prototypes, to allow general
```

> ussage and consumption of iterators. For specifics on the implemented methods, please refer to the

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
usage and consumption of iterators. For specifics on the implemented methods, please refer to the
```

result.next(); //  {value: 2, done: false};
result.next(); //  {value: 4, done: false};
```

### `.take(limit)`

`take` takes an integer as an argument. It takes a group of the specified size and returns an
iterator with only those elements.

Returns an iterator with items from the original iterator from 0 until the limit.

#### Example

```JavaScript
function* naturals() {
  let i = 0;
  while (true) {
    yield i;
    i += 1;
  }
}

const result = naturals()
  .take(3);
result.next(); //  {value: 0, done: false};
result.next(); //  {value: 1, done: false};
result.next(); //  {value: 2, done: false};
result.next(); //  {value: undefined, done: true};
```

### `.drop(limit)`

`drop` takes an integer as an argument. It skips a set of value in the iterator determined by the
`limit` argument.

Returns an iterator of items after the limit.

#### Example

```JavaScript
function* naturals() {
  let i = 0;
  while (true) {
    yield i;
    i += 1;
  }
}

const result = naturals()
  .drop(3);
result.next(); //  {value: 3, done: false};
result.next(); //  {value: 4, done: false};
result.next(); //  {value: 5, done: false};
```

### `.asIndexedPairs()`

> `.asInexedPairs` takes no arguments. It returns an iterator where each value is paired with its

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
`.asIndexedPairs` takes no arguments. It returns an iterator where each value is paired with its
```

index.

Returns an iterator of pairs.

#### Example

```JavaScript
const abc = ["a", "b", "c"].values();

const result = abc
  .asIndexedPairs();
result.next(); //  {value: [0, "a"], done: false};
result.next(); //  {value: [1, "b"], done: false};
result.next(); //  {value: [2, "c"], done: false};
```

### `.flatMap(mapperFn)`

`.flatMap` takes a mapping function as an argument. It returns an iterator where each value, if it
is an iterator, is flattened into a single iterator.

Returns an iterator of flat values.

#### Example

```JavaScript
const sunny = ["It's Sunny in", "", "California"].values();

const result = sunny
  .flatMap(value => value.split(" ").values());
result.next(); //  "it's";

> result.next(); //  "Sunny";

Reviewer: typo?

iterator is consumed when some is called.

#### Example

```JavaScript
const iter = [1, 2, 3].values();

iter.some(v => v > 1); // true
iter.some(v => v  == 1) // false, iterator is already consumed.

function* naturals() {
  let i = 0;
  while (true) {
    yield i;
    i += 1;
  }
}

naturals().take(4).some(v => v > 1); // true
naturals().take(4).some(v => v == 1); // true, acting on a new iterator
```

### `.every(fn)`

`.every` takes a function which returns a boolean as an argument. It is used to check if every
value generated by the iterator passes the test function.

Returns a boolean.

```JavaScript
const iter = [1, 2, 3].values();

iter.every(v => v >= 1); // true
iter.every(v => v >= 1) // false, iterator is already consumed.

function* naturals() {
  let i = 0;
  while (true) {
    yield i;
    i += 1;
  }
}

naturals().take(4).every(v => v > 1); // false, first value is 1
naturals().take(4).every(v => v >= 1); // true, acting on a new iterator
```

### `.find(fn)`

`.find` takes a function as an argument. It is used to find the first element in an iterator that matches.

Can be used without `take` on infinite iterators.

> Returns the found element.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Returns the found element, or *undefined* if no element matches `fn`.
```

  }
}

const result = naturals()
  .map(value => {
    return value * value;
  });
result.next(); //  {value: 0, done: false};
result.next(); //  {value: 1, done: false};
result.next(); //  {value: 4, done: false};
```

### `.filter(filtererFn)`

`filter` takes a function as an argument. It allows users to skip values from an iterator which do not pass a filter function.

Returns an iterator of values from the original iterator that pass the filter.

#### Example

```JavaScript
function* naturals() {
  let i = 0;
  while (true) {
    yield i;
    i += 1;
  }
}

const result = naturals()
  .filter(value => {
    return value % 2 == 0;
  });
result.next(); //  {value: 0, done: false};
result.next(); //  {value: 2, done: false};
result.next(); //  {value: 4, done: false};
```

### `.take(limit)`

> `take` takes an integer as an argument. It takes a group of the specified size and returns an
> iterator with only those elements.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
`take` takes an integer as an argument. It returns an iterator that produces, at most, the given number of elements produced by the underlying iterator.
```

Returns an iterator with items from the original iterator from 0 until the limit.

#### Example

```JavaScript
function* naturals() {
  let i = 0;
  while (true) {
    yield i;
    i += 1;
  }
}

const result = naturals()
  .take(3);
result.next(); //  {value: 0, done: false};
result.next(); //  {value: 1, done: false};
result.next(); //  {value: 2, done: false};
result.next(); //  {value: undefined, done: true};
```

### `.drop(limit)`

> `drop` takes an integer as an argument. It skips a set of value in the iterator determined by the
> `limit` argument.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
`drop` takes an integer as an argument. It skips the given number of elements produced by the underlying iterator before itself producing any remaining elements.
```

Returns an iterator of items after the limit.

#### Example

```JavaScript
function* naturals() {
  let i = 0;
  while (true) {
    yield i;
    i += 1;
  }
}

const result = naturals()
  .drop(3);
result.next(); //  {value: 3, done: false};
result.next(); //  {value: 4, done: false};
result.next(); //  {value: 5, done: false};
```

### `.asIndexedPairs()`

> `.asIndexedPairs` takes no arguments. It returns an iterator where each value is paired with its
> index.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
`.asIndexedPairs` takes no arguments. It returns an iterator where each value produced by the underlying iterator is paired with a counter, starting at 0 and increasing by 1 with every element produced.
```

Returns an iterator of pairs.

#### Example

```JavaScript
const abc = ["a", "b", "c"].values();

const result = abc
  .asIndexedPairs();
result.next(); //  {value: [0, "a"], done: false};
result.next(); //  {value: [1, "b"], done: false};
result.next(); //  {value: [2, "c"], done: false};
```

### `.flatMap(mapperFn)`

> `.flatMap` takes a mapping function as an argument. It returns an iterator where each value, if it
> is an iterator, is flattened into a single iterator.

Reviewer 3: I don't like using the term "flattened" to describe `flatMap`.

```suggestion
`.flatMap` takes a mapping function as an argument. It returns an iterator that produces all elements of the iterators produced by applying the mapping function to the elements produced by the underlying iterator.
```

Returns an iterator of flat values.

#### Example

```JavaScript
const sunny = ["It's Sunny in", "", "California"].values();

const result = sunny
  .flatMap(value => value.split(" ").values());
result.next(); //  {value: "It's", done: false};
result.next(); //  {value: "Sunny", done: false};
result.next(); //  {value: "in", done: false};
result.next(); //  {value: "", done: false};
result.next(); //  {value: "California", done: false};
result.next(); //  {value: undefined, done: true};
```

### `.reduce(reducer [, initialValue ])`

> `reduce` takes a function and an optional initial value as an argument. It allows users to apply a funtion to every element returned from an iterator.

Reviewer 3: This is currently the same description as `map`.

```suggestion
`reduce` takes a function and an optional initial value as an argument. It allows users to apply a function to every element returned from an iterator, while keeping track of the most recent result of the reducer (the memo). For the first element, the given initial value is used as the memo.
```

Returns a value (in the example, a number) of the type returned to the reducer function.

#### Example

```JavaScript
function* naturals() {
  let i = 0;
  while (true) {
    yield i;
    i += 1;
  }
}

const result = naturals()
  .take(5)
  .reduce((value, sum) => {
    return sum + value;
  }, 3);

result // 13
```

### `.toArray()`

When you have a non-infinite iterator which you wish to transform into an array, you can do so with
the builtin `toArray` method.

Returns an Array containing the values from the iterator.

#### Example

```JavaScript
function* naturals() {
  let i = 0;
  while (true) {
    yield i;
    i += 1;
  }
}

const result = naturals()
  .take(5)
  .toArray();

result // [0, 1, 2, 3, 4]
```

### `.forEach(fn)`

For using side effects with an iterator, you can use the `.forEach` builtin method, which takes as
an argument a function.

Returns undefined.

#### Example

```JavaScript
const log = [];
const fn = (value) => log.push(value);
const iter = [1, 2, 3].values();

iter.forEach(fn);
console.log(log.join(", ")) // "1, 2, 3"
```

### `some(fn)`

> To check if any value in the iterator matches a paramter, `.some` can be used. It takes as an
> argument a function which returns true or false.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
To check if any value in the iterator matches a given predicate, `.some` can be used. It takes as an argument a function which returns true or false.
```

}
```

#### Extending Iterator Prototype

> With this proposal, it will be easier to extend the IteatorPrototype for a custom class. See the

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
With this proposal, it will be easier to extend the IteratorPrototype for a custom class. See the
```
